hello America I'm Marc Levin this is
life Liberty and Levin we have two great
guests Katie Pavlich how are you nice to
see you
I think Anna's Owens how are you very
good to see you too the great young
smart intellectual conservatives who I
wanted to have on the program now Katie
Pavlich in 2010 you earned your Bachelor
of Arts degree in broadcast journalism
from the University of Arizona after
completing your degree in 2010 you moved
to Washington DC you became news editor
for townhall.com contributing editor
townhall magazine Fox News Channel
contributor now an alternate co-host for
the five and your ubiquitous as are you
Candice Candice you you're known for
your commentary you you are the director
of urban engagement at the conservatory
advocacy group training Point USA you
were pursuing an undergraduate degree in
journalism at the University of Rhode
Island you left school you said that's
enough you launched social autopsy calm
in 2016 a website where you were
exposing bullies and so forth now this
is very interesting to me you really
come from different backgrounds you're
both conservatives is that correct
correct and you came at it from a
completely different direction this is
something I think about all the time how
to appeal to people how do we reach out
to people people from different
communities people from different
backgrounds because I personally think
the conservatism is the glue that holds
society together why are you a
conservative well as Margaret Thatcher
used to say the facts of life are
conservative and I think that's really
just part of who I am I grew up in a
conservative household my parents were
small business owners so it really just
was kind of part of who we were we never
sat us down and said you know this is
the left believes it's what the right
believes for publicans Democrats it was
just more of a conversation piece and I
wrote a letter to Bill Clinton when I
was six years old about taxes and how it
was unfair that he was taking our money
we didn't get to spend his money and he
wrote me back with you know a generic
argument about paying fair shares and
all that kind of thing so that's when it
really started but you know I'm a
Dauterive American
my grandpa fought in World War two of
lots of family members who were in the
military and it really just was part of
growing up for me I didn't realize until
high school that be man wearing a cowboy
hat on the poster in our garage was
actually Ronald Reagan so my parents
just it was how we were you know I grew
up on five acres of land in Flagstaff
Arizona and we really just lived a
conservative lifestyle personal
responsibility you know being
self-sufficient you know being
responsible for our own actions or our
own future and pursuits so that's why I
am a conservative it really just is part
of who I am Candice you didn't grow up
that way I did not become a fairly
recent conservative how did you reach
that point well I like to say now that
the reason I'm conservative is because I
used to be a liberal and and I learned a
lot obviously growing up in a black
household there's a lot of emphasis
placed on black people today being
liberals being Democrats it's pretty
much programmed into us via the public
school system that that is the only
option for us because Republicans of
course are racist and they want to harm
the black community and I had a
different experience in life realizing
that everything my life seemed to be
going wrong I was blaming the world for
everything that was going wrong there
was no personal responsibility because a
lot of these liberal movements you're
essentially taught that there's always
someone else that you can blame and
you're pointing the finger and everybody
else you're not looking internally to
fix things and you'll you'll find that
things will continue to go wrong so
during the 2016 election cycle I was
watching our wonderful president take a
run for the White House and the
conversation was very strange the
rhetoric that the media was using was
extremely aggressive they were trying to
convince me that he was a racist that he
was a sexist that he was a misogynist at
one point that he was incestuous
right with they started that horrible
story about Ivanka Trump and at one
point that he was a rapist and I said
this is very strange I grew up in a
household listening to hip-hop music
Trump was glorified and a lot of those
music and a lot of those songs and all
of a sudden they wanted me to believe
that he was a racist so I had to ask
myself in that moment is it plausible
that racism is
being used as a theme to turn black
people into single issue voters and the
answer to that question is of course yes
what is conservatism mean to you
conservatism to me is you know limited
government liberty and sticking to the
Constitution and realizing that
government is not the solution to almost
anything that your community your family
is a solution to everything you know
going back to the beginning of the
country we've rejected this communal way
style of living going back to the
pilgrims coming here I mean but being
conservative is really just about you
know making your own decisions deciding
on your own future and being responsible
when you fail learning from those
failures and be able to move on and be
successful in your own right not having
to depend on other people to make your
success for you obviously you go through
life and you have you know partnerships
and bosses who promote you and give you
opportunity but it's really up to you to
take those opportunities and pursue them
in a way that makes you successful and
what is conservatism mean to you well if
you look at the the inverse I think
liberalism to me means bondage and
conservatism means freedom the freedom
to choose the freedom to have
responsibilities to go after things in
life it's the founding principles of
this country that any person had come to
this country with the clothes the
clothing on their back and make
something of themselves
I learned conservatism through my
grandfather I didn't know that that was
the name I didn't know these were
conservative principles starting his
life on a sharecropping farm working
tremendously hard five years old picking
cotton and laying tobacco out to dry on
a farm and and today he now owns that
farm that was the American dream and we
lost that we gave that up as government
got bigger and the individual got
smaller and this is all quite important
from a philosophical perspective you
just related it to your to your own
family it's conservatism about
individualism absolutely his
conservatism about a circle of Liberty
that surrounds each individual that
government must never penetrate is this
an appealing idea among young people
today and college campuses today I mean
when I was a young guy a little while
ago and I would go college campuses I
have to say I was fighting I was
the minority all the time because the
the professor's weren't any different
they were collectivist they were tenured
some of them were Marxist and it all
sounds so cool and we had to fight this
and I thought the people who fought it
with me we're actually the smarter ones
is that what's going on today or is it
worse in our colleges today well I know
that parents get really nervous about
sending their kids to college because
they're concerned about the
indoctrination but for me going to a
liberal university and having that
combative role with professors both in
political science department and the
journalism department really solidified
my principles as a conservative and why
I am the way I am and I had to I was
challenged every day and had to defend
myself and come up with another side of
the argument that was valid and when it
comes to other students you know I was
always leading the charge to try and
bring conservative speakers and fighting
the administration because they were
infringing on her free speech rights by
charging us these ridiculous security
fees and so I would say you know the
campus environment maybe hasn't changed
it is pretty bad i speak on college
campuses a couple times a semester and
there is no room for any kind of thought
outside of the Marxism outside of the
socialism but what I've learned is that
the students may buy into that but when
you actually ask them what socialism
means they can't define it and when you
start pointing things out like each and
every one of you are wearing a different
pair of shoes and each and every one of
you have a different style backpack or a
different style iPod or a different
phone case and it seems really simple
but the fact is that they are
individuals on every single level of
their life and socialism and communism
and Marxism don't allow them to do that
but you can never blame students
especially for something they've never
been told and so I feel like it's my
obligation to go to these college
campuses and just simply present the
other side of an argument of an idea
that they're not getting inside of their
classrooms and oftentimes I always ask
people who disagree with me to come I
tell whatever group is hosting me to
invite the College Democrats invite the
college socialists invite people to come
and listen bite your professors who have
been saying these horrible things about
my speech already even though they've
never you know met me or know who I am
or even know what I'm going to talk
about and they may come in disagreeing
with me and they may leave disagreeing
with me but the rewarding thing is once
come up to me afterwards and say look I
walked in here disagreeing with you I
still disagree with you but at least I
know where you're coming from and even
better is when they come and say I
totally disagreed with you but now I
agree with you and I'm gonna go and tell
ten of my friends exactly what I learned
here tonight you wear journalism major I
was yes
you took journalism courses that was
your major correct was it hard left were
the indoctrinating peoples that white
journalists in this country are so I'm
almost to a person there's a few
exception
speak sound make the same noises on TV
and radio that's correct it definitely
is indoctrination and I will say this
it's much worse today than when I was in
school and we're talking about just a
difference of five years hmm what I have
up have observed on college campuses
this year and you're on college campuses
okay yeah we do we do college campus
tours it's terrifying
it's actually terrifying there's this
idea that it's virtuous you can't speak
as a conservative on campus without
being boycott without being protested
without you know students lining up and
playing music loudly so that they can
drown out this town of your voices now
we're not speaking about anything
controversial at Turning Point USA we
believe in free markets and capitalism
the founding principles of this country
and the students hates that and they
don't hate that as Katie mentioned they
don't hate that because they form these
ideas they hate that because they have
been indoctrinated to hate that so I say
that college campuses are literal
liberal indoctrination camps and that is
why I understood especially in terms of
me wanting to wake up black America
which is my highest priority that that
was an extremely important vertical to
hit it is how I ended up as a liberal is
how I ended up thinking that perhaps
socialist principles could save the
world the most important battle that we
are facing in this country today and
what conservatives did wrong was handing
over the school systems of a left
allowing them to take that over and it
is the most important battle that we are
fighting today and this is a great point
I mean it essentially is a monopoly in
ideological monopoly and yet this is
where we're told academic freedom and
free speech at least again when I was
going to colleges even though I was in
the minority for me from a philosophical
perspective
professors there's less and less that so
we have this ideological monopoly that's
called that on our college campuses even
though there's thousands of them there's
a few exceptions like Hillsdale College
and gross eating a few others but
they're the exceptions what do we do
about it well I would say we need more
conservative professors but that is not
the easiest feat in the world so now I
mean just went because the faculty it's
incestuous the questions the Faculty's
they pick from their own schools they
pick people who are the thrill in
ideology I mean I've been looking into
this myself how do we break the back of
this monopoly well I think that we have
to first look at the fact that taxpayers
are funding these government
institutions so we call them public
schools they're really government
institutions especially when it comes to
universities they're constantly going to
their state legislatures and asking for
more money for less productive work and
less results the universities on the the
public level the government level are
not responsible for anything that they
put out so they don't care if you go for
four years five years six years as long
as you're paying the money they don't
care if you get a degree in sociology
they actually probably prefer that but
there's no results they're not trying to
get people a job so how do we change
that first you talk to your state
legislatures about how the universities
are taking all of your tax money and
they're not actually producing any
real-world was world results of students
who can then go get real jobs instead of
being a hundred thousand dollars in debt
over a woman's state back to funding
pull back some of the funding look at
what you know what they're spending
their money on when I was in college I
would go on a radio show every single
Thursday and expose what was happening
inside the universities in Seidman
classroom what my professors were saying
inside the classroom what they were
spending money on I remember they built
a fake border wall across campus and
they were preventing students from
getting to class and those are the
things that student fees are going
towards that's what parents are paying
for
that's what taxpayers are footing the
bill for and so exposing that from the
inside out is important because alumni
can look at it and say I'm no longer
going to give my money to these
universities I'm going to give them to
conservative organizations instead that
are actually making a difference on
campus suing universities is key too
because they think that they're not
going to be held accountable by anybody
but when they're infringing on the
rights
of students organizations like fire have
sued on behalf of students ADF ADF has
also sued to say look you think you can
bully students out of their First
Amendment rights by bringing
conservative speakers here to simply
offer a different point of view we're
not going to put up with that anymore
their constitutional rights apply on
campus and off campus when we come back
I want to know what you think - what we
should do about this ideological
monopoly on our college campuses I think
these are great ideas great things that
are going on but I think it is the the
biggest problem we face when it comes to
young people in this country don't
forget folks to join us almost every
weeknight on Levin TV go to see our
tv.com slash mark see our tv.com slash
mark and join us or give us a call at
844 Levin TV 844 Levin TV and by the way
notice how patriotic I guess so red
white blue and they didn't plan they did
not place